CSS Module: shadow parts (#27909)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/css_shadow_parts/index.md

---
title: CSS shadow parts module
slug: Web/CSS/CSS_shadow_parts
page-type: css-module
spec-urls: https://drafts.csswg.org/css-shadow-parts/
---

{{CSSRef}}

> The **CSS shadow parts** module defines the {{CSSXref("::part", "::part()")}} pseudo-element on shadow hosts, allowing shadow hosts to expose selected shadow tree elements to the outside page for styling purposes.

Reviewer: - split the sentence - how about this rephrasing
- also added a link to 'shadow tree' glossary because all these shadow DOM-related terms are referred there and a food intro to the shadow DOM concept. (and additionally, we have [Using shadow DOM](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_components/Using_shadow_DOM) in "See also") 

```suggestion
The **CSS shadow parts** module defines the {{CSSXref("::part", "::part()")}} pseudo-element that can be set on a [shadow host](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Shadow_tree). Using this pseudo-element, you can enable shadow hosts to expose the selected element in the shadow tree to the outside page for styling purposes.
```

> By default, elements in a shadow tree are only styleable from within that shadow root. The CSS shadow parts module enables including a [`part`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes#part) attribute on {{HTMLElement("template")}} descendants, exposing the shadow tree node to external styling via the `::part()` pseudo-element.

Reviewer: - Can we explain the context of `template` descendants here?

```suggestion
By default, elements in a shadow tree can be styled only within their respective shadow roots. The CSS shadow parts module enables including a [`part`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes#part) attribute on {{HTMLElement("template")}} descendants, exposing the shadow tree node to external styling via the `::part()` pseudo-element.
```

## Reference

### Selectors

- {{CSSXref("::part", "::part()")}}

> ### HTML Attributes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### HTML attributes
```

> By default, elements in a shadow tree can be styled only within their respective shadow roots. The CSS shadow parts module enables including a [`part`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes#part) attribute on {{HTMLElement("template")}} descendants, exposing the shadow tree node to external styling via the `::part()` pseudo-element.

Author: ```suggestion
By default, elements in a shadow tree can be styled only within their respective shadow roots. The CSS shadow parts module enables including a [`part`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes#part) attribute on {{HTMLElement("template")}} descendants that make up the custom element, exposing the shadow tree node to external styling via the `::part()` pseudo-element.
```

- [`part`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes#part)
- [`exportparts`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes#exportparts)

### Definitions

- {{glossary("Shadow tree")}}

## Guides

- [CSS pseudo-elements](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Pseudo-elements)

  - : Alphabetical list of pseudo-elements defined by all the CSS specifications and WebVTT

- [Web components](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_components)

>   - : Overview of the different APIs that make enable creating reusable custom elements, or web components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Overview of the different APIs that enable creating reusable custom elements or web components.
```

## Related concepts

- HTML {{HTMLElement("template")}} element
- HTML {{HTMLElement("slot")}} element
- {{domxref("Element.part")}} property
- {{domxref("Element.shadowRoot")}} property
- {{domxref("Element.attachShadow()")}} method
- {{domxref("ShadowRoot")}} interface
- CSS scoping module
  - {{CSSXref(":host")}}
  - {{CSSXref(":host_function", ":host()")}}
  - {{CSSXref(":host-context", ":host-context()")}}

>   - {{CSSXref("::slotted")}}

Reviewer: I noticed that the style used in these pages (though they're not module landing pages) was similar to the pseudo-elements page I reviewed yesterday - that is, an example code snippet, no heading and then a syntax code snippet with "Syntax" heading

Author: i'll add that to my list of chores ;)

Author: https://github.com/mdn/content/issues/27938

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## See also

- [CSS pseudo elements](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_pseudo) module
- [CSS selectors](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_selectors) module
- [Using shadow DOM](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_components/Using_shadow_DOM)

> - [Templates: styling outside of the current scope](https://web.dev/learn/html/template/#styling-outside-of-the-current-scope) on web.dev (2023)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Templates: Styling outside of the current scope](https://web.dev/learn/html/template/#styling-outside-of-the-current-scope) on web.dev (2023)
```
